CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

1. Check for [existing issues](https://github.com/webgme/webgme/issues) and confirm that it has not been already fixed in the [master branch](https://github.com/webgme/webgme/commits/master)
2. Fork the repo and clone it locally
3. Create a new branch for your contribution
4. Add tests
  - Running with mocha under node [tests](test/) run with `npm test`
  - `npm run test_cover` will generate a coverage report under the `coverage` directory
  - Running with karma using [browser tests](test-karma/) run with `npm run test_browser`
5. Push to your fork and submit a pull request


## Development guidelines

* Configure your editor to use [`.jshintrc`](.jshintrc) and [`.jscsrc`](.jscsrc)
* Don't update the version in `package.json`, the webgme package maintainers will do it

```JavaScript
/*jshint node: true*/
```

```JavaScript
/*jshint browser: true*/
```

```JavaScript
/*jshint node: true, mocha: true*/
```

Always declare your globals at the top of the source.
```JavaScript
/*globals define, requirejs*/
```


Use [JSDoc](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSDoc) syntax to annotate source code with documentation, eg. specify authors as:
```JavaScript
/**
 * @author <your_github_username> / https://github.com/<your_github_username>
 */
```

### Branch naming conventions

FILL IN...

# Creating a release

This section is for maintainers of webgme.

FILL IN...

Commit message:

Implement first version of public API (user management). WIP add basic routes.
WIP add listing of all users

WIP Add basic authentication

WIP add update/delete/get user placeholders.

WIP first tests for server  api

WIP add user api blueprint, link documentation.

WIP blueprint files should have LF line endings.

Update CONTRIBUTING.md

WIP update api document

WIP update api document

WIP implement tests for the api.

WIP peg aglio and content disposition versions

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

1. Check for [existing issues](https://github.com/webgme/webgme/issues) and confirm that it has not been already fixed in the [master branch](https://github.com/webgme/webgme/commits/master)
2. Fork the repo and clone it locally
3. Create a new branch for your contribution
4. Add tests
  - Running with mocha under node [tests](test/) run with `npm test`
  - `npm run test_cover` will generate a coverage report under the `coverage` directory
  - Running with karma using [browser tests](test-karma/) run with `npm run test_browser`
5. Push to your fork and submit a pull request


# Development

* `npm run` will print all available commands
* `npm start` starts the webgme web server
* `node node_modules\nodemon\bin\nodemon.js src\bin\start_server.js` restarts server on file changes

For any commands the `DEBUG` environment variable can be set. Examples are given for `npm test` command.

Platform specifics:
- `*nix` `$ DEBUG=* npm test`
- `Windows` `set DEBUG=* & npm test`

Examples are given for Windows:
- `set DEBUG=gme:* & npm test`
- `set DEBUG=gme:*,-gme:*worker* & npm test`
- `set DEBUG=gme:*storage*,superagent* & npm test`
- `set DEBUG=gme:*storage*,socket-io* & npm test`
- `set DEBUG=gme:standalone*,express* & npm test`
- `set DEBUG=gme:*plugin* & npm test`

To test and develop the API use the following commands

* `node node_modules\aglio\bin\aglio.js --input src\server\api\Readme.md --server` live preview of the online documentation of the api blueprint
* `node node_modules\api-mock\bin\api-mock src\server\api\Readme.md` serves the api according the blueprint

Note: when you have finished verify that the api documentation is available if you run the webgme server at `http://localhost:8888/developer/api`

### Development guidelines

* Configure your editor to use [`.jshintrc`](.jshintrc) and [`.jscsrc`](.jscsrc)
* Don't update the version in `package.json`, the webgme package maintainers will do it

```JavaScript
/*jshint node: true*/
```

```JavaScript
/*jshint browser: true*/
```

```JavaScript
/*jshint node: true, mocha: true*/
```

Always declare your globals at the top of the source.
```JavaScript
/*globals define, requirejs*/
```


Use [JSDoc](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSDoc) syntax to annotate source code with documentation, eg. specify authors as:
```JavaScript
/**
 * @author <your_github_username> / https://github.com/<your_github_username>
 */
```

### Branch naming conventions

FILL IN...

# Creating a release

This section is for maintainers of webgme.

FILL IN...
