docs/meta_modeling/what_is_meta_modeling.rst, before:

What is Meta-modeling?
======================
Alright, so you have created your first webgme project and probably want to make a bit more interesting than just containing
the **FCO** and **ROOT** nodes...

In a typical modeling environment (including the Design Studio you will have built up at the end of this tutorial)
there will be an syntax or schema for how models are being built up. In many tools this syntax is implied and enforced in the code itself.
But webgme, and meta-modeling tools in general, work differently. The rules for how models can be composed (structural semantics)
is captured in a model itself - the meta-model.

The following definition of meta-modeling is borrowed from Wikipedia [1]_.

::

    A metamodel or surrogate model is a model of a model, and metamodeling
    is the process of generating such metamodels.

So a meta-model is a model that governs how other models can be composed.

Simple Containment Example
-------------------------
The domain, or meta-model, we are targeting in this tutorial is a domain for building electrical circuits. Two obvious
concepts that comes into mind are the notions of :code:`Circuit` and :code:`Component`.

* :code:`Circuit` - This will be the diagrams where different types of electrical-components will be place and wired together.
* :code:`Component` - This will be an abstract base type for various electrical-components such as :code:`Resistor`, :code:`Ground`, :code:`Inductor`, etc.

Conceptually, just the notion of these two meta-types constitutes a meta-model. So far we have defined that our models can
have instances of :code:`Circuit` and :code:`Component`, however nothing has been said about how these instances can be related to each other...

A natural way of relating electrical-circuits and electrical-components is to say that circuits *can contain* components. Most meta-modeling
environments have the notion of **containment** defines exactly this. (It is typically visualized as an edge between the two types, where
the end at the container is a black diamond.)

.. figure:: containment_uml.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 50 %

    Containment as depicted in `UML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Modeling_Language>`_

.. figure:: containment_webgme.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 100 %

    Containment as depicted in WebGME

In the two graphical representations of **containment** the **cardinality** is also shown. For this example it says that
there can be any number of :code:`Components` contained inside of a :code:`Circuit`.

**Containment** is also a strong relationship. This means that when the parent (the container) is removed from the model
so are the children. This suites well for electrical-circuits - if we discard a circuit the components are discarded as well.

.. [1] This tutorial uses the hyphenated version of meta-model and not metamodel.

Commit message:

WIP Finish meta-modeling, add GUI loaded

docs/meta_modeling/what_is_meta_modeling.rst, after:

What is Meta-modeling?
======================
Alright, so you have created your first webgme project and probably want to make a bit more interesting than just containing
the **FCO** and **ROOT** nodes...

In a typical modeling environment (including the Design Studio you will have built up at the end of this tutorial)
there will be an syntax or schema for how models are being built up. In many tools this syntax is implied and enforced in the code itself.
But webgme, and meta-modeling tools in general, work differently. The rules for how models can be composed (structural semantics)
is captured in a model itself - the meta-model.

The following definition of meta-modeling is borrowed from Wikipedia [1]_.

::

    A metamodel or surrogate model is a model of a model, and metamodeling
    is the process of generating such metamodels.

So a meta-model is a model that governs how other models can be composed.

Simple Containment Example
-------------------------
The domain, or meta-model, we are targeting in this tutorial is a domain for building electrical circuits. Two obvious
concepts that comes into mind are the notions of :code:`Circuit` and :code:`Component`.

* :code:`Circuit` - This will be the diagrams where different types of electrical-components will be place and wired together.
* :code:`Component` - This will be an abstract base type for various electrical-components such as :code:`Resistor`, :code:`Ground`, :code:`Inductor`, etc.

Conceptually, just the notion of these two meta-types constitutes a meta-model. So far we have defined that our models can
have instances of :code:`Circuit` and :code:`Component`, however nothing has been said about how such instances can be related to one another...

A natural way of relating electrical-circuits and electrical-components is to say that circuits *can contain* components. Most meta-modeling
environments have the notion of **containment** defines exactly this. (It is typically visualized as an edge between the two types, where
the end at the container is a black diamond.)

.. figure:: containment_uml.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 30 %

    Containment as depicted in `UML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Modeling_Language>`_

.. figure:: containment_webgme.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 100 %

    Containment as depicted in WebGME

In the two graphical representations of **containment** the **cardinality** is also shown. For this example it says that
there can be any number of :code:`Components` contained inside of a :code:`Circuit`.

**Containment** is also a strong relationship. This means that when the parent (the container) is removed from the model
so are the children. This suites well for electrical-circuits - if we discard a circuit the components are discarded as well.

Model elements can be related any more ways than **containment**, in the next sections we will go through all the different
meta relations, meta rules, that webgme support. At this point you just need to have an idea of what meta-modeling is.

.. [1] This tutorial uses the hyphenated version of meta-model and not metamodel.
