docs/getting_started/terminology.rst, before:

Terminology
======================

Project
  Version (and access) controlled model repository containing (model)data-blobs, commits, branches and tags.

Commit
  Immutable object with a reference to a single state of a project and the ancestor commit(s) [of that state].

Branch
  Mutable label referencing a single commit. [Changes to branches are broadcasted to clients.]

Tag
  Similar to a branch, but it does not change. [It can be deleted and recreated but not updated.]
Node
  Atomic modeling element in the project tree.

Containment/Composition
  Single rooted tree among the nodes related as parent/children. Strong relationship.

Inheritance
  Single rooted tree among the nodes related as base/instance. Strong relationship that infers prototypal/prototypical inheritance.

Project Tree
  Combination of the containment and inheritance tree. [Where the nodes exist.]

FCO and ROOT node
  The FCO is the root of the inheritance tree and the ROOT is the root of the containment tree.

Meta-rules
  Definitions that governs the properties of, and relationships between the nodes.

Meta-node
  Node that is part of the MetaAspectSet (owned by the ROOT) and typically contains meta-rules.

Meta-type
  A node’s first parent in the inheritance tree that is a meta-node is the meta-type of that node.

Relid
  Unique identifier of a child within a parent.

Path
  Unique position of a node in the containment hierarchy. [The '/'-concatenation of the parents’ and its relids.]

GUID
  Immutable unique identifier of a node.

Library and namespace
  A project embedded within another project. Each library defines a unique namespace.

Core API
  API for querying and manipulating nodes that forms a state of a project.

Client API
  API on top of the Core API that also handles the evolution of a project.

Plugin
  Scripts invoked on a specific state of a project. [Typically use the Core API to interpret or transform models.]

Visualizer
  UI-component that visualizes the state and evolution of the project tree. [Typically uses the Client API to track the changes]

Decorator
  UI-component subordinate a visualizer that visualizes/decorates a single node. [The Model Editor and Part Browser defines their own APIs for controlling their decorators.]

Commit message:

WIP What is webgme? more text

docs/getting_started/terminology.rst, after:

Terminology
======================
This is a list of webgme-terminology that will be used throughout the tutorial. It's recommended to at least skim through this
list at this stage, but the main purpose is to be able to use it a reference manual.


Project
  Version (and access) controlled model repository containing (model)data-blobs, commits, branches and tags.

Commit
  Immutable object with a reference to a single state of a project and the ancestor commit(s) [of that state].

Branch
  Mutable label referencing a single commit. [Changes to branches are broadcasted to clients.]

Tag
  Similar to a branch, but it does not change. [It can be deleted and recreated but not updated.]

Node
  Atomic modeling element in the project tree.

Containment/Composition
  Single rooted tree among the nodes related as parent/children. Strong relationship.

Inheritance
  Single rooted tree among the nodes related as base/instance. Strong relationship that infers prototypal/prototypical inheritance.

Project Tree
  Combination of the containment and inheritance tree. [Where the nodes exist.]

FCO and ROOT node
  The FCO is the root of the inheritance tree and the ROOT is the root of the containment tree.

Meta-rules
  Definitions that governs the properties of, and relationships between the nodes.

Meta-node
  Node that is part of the MetaAspectSet (owned by the ROOT) and typically contains meta-rules.

Meta-type
  A node’s first parent in the inheritance tree that is a meta-node is the meta-type of that node.

Relid
  Unique identifier of a child within a parent.

Path
  Unique position of a node in the containment hierarchy. [The '/'-concatenation of the parents’ and its relids.]

GUID
  Immutable unique identifier of a node.

Library and namespace
  A project embedded within another project. Each library defines a unique namespace.

Core API
  API for querying and manipulating nodes that forms a state of a project.

Client API
  API on top of the Core API that also handles the evolution of a project.

Plugin
  Scripts invoked on a specific state of a project. [Typically use the Core API to interpret or transform models.]

Visualizer
  UI-component that visualizes the state and evolution of the project tree. [Typically uses the Client API to track the changes]

Decorator
  UI-component subordinate a visualizer that visualizes/decorates a single node. [The Model Editor and Part Browser defines their own APIs for controlling their decorators.]
