docs/interpreters/creating_the_interpreter.rst, before:

Creating the Code Generator
=========================
So far we have constructed a meta-model for our electrical-circuit domain. It enabled us to create models that resembles
circuits. Up to this point though there is no actual meaning to the circuits. As humans we can infer certain properties from
these circuits, but the models themselves don't impose any particular interpretation. The meta-model infers the structural semantics,
but no behavioural semantics.

There are many potential interpretations and interpreters of our circuit models. In this tutorial we will focus on generating
Modelica code that can be used to simulate the dynamic behavior of the circuit in question.

How to Implement the Interpreter?
-----------------------
In webgme the typical extension point for writing interpreters are plugins. The plugin framework and API are designed to
enable both server- and browser-side execution of the same code. At the point where a plugin is executed it will have
access to the context it was invoked and through various webgme APIs; :code:`Core`, :code:`Project`, :code:`BlobClient` etc.

In this tutorial we will create two plugins;

* *ModelicaCodeGenerator* - Responsible for traversing model hierarchy and extract the data needed for generating Modelica code corresponding to the circuit being interpreted.

* *SimulateModelica* - Responsible for invoking a Modelica tool that can simulate the dynamical behavior of the circuits. This plugin will also be responsible for communicating back the results to the users.

There a couple of reasons why this is a favourable division. To generate the Modelica code there is no restrictions on
where the plugin is executed. The server does not have to have any 3rd party dependencies installed (or have any connected
workers with available resources) and the plugin can even run in the browser. For some deployments restricting the set of features
to only generate the Modelica code might be favorable. When it comes to writing tests it is typically also easier to divide
functionality into separate implementations.

We will start with the *ModelicaCodeGenerator* here and continue with the *SimulateModelica* in the **Integrating Analysis Tools** section.

Generating a Plugin Template
-----------------------
To get a quick start we use the webgme-cli tool in order to create a new plugin. Navigate to the root of the repository
created at the beginning of this tutorial and invoke the command below.

.. code-block:: bash

    webgme new plugin ModelicaCodeGenerator

This should generate a range of new files..

:code:`src/plugins/ModelicaCodeGenerator/metadata.json`
    This json-structure contains information about the plugin and is used by the GUI and plugin-framework. Details
    about what goes in here is explained in the `wikipages <https://github.com/webgme/webgme/wiki/GME-Plugins#metadatajson>`_.

:code:`src/plugins/ModelicaCodeGenerator/ModelicaCodeGenerator.js`
    This is the code of the plugin itself. The very first lines show the dependencies needed for this code
    to run and is using `requirejs <http://requirejs.org/>`_ hence the syntax
    :code:`define(['path'], function (Module){ ... return ModelicaCodeGenerator;});`. The last return statement is the
    module that this file defines when required by another module (the plugin framework must be able to load our plugin).

:code:`test/plugins/ModelicaCodeGenerator/ModelicaCodeGenerator.spec.js`
    This is the outline of a `mocha <https://mochajs.org/>`_ test suite for the plugin and shows how to build up a test
    context and invoke a plugin from a unit-test.

You might also have noticed that the :code:`config/config.webgme.js` was modified... In order for the webgme plugin framework
to find our plugin the path to it is added to the configuration file. Note that both :code:`config.default.js` and
:code:`config.test.js` load and reuse the added configuration parameters from this file.

The video below shows how to generate the new plugin and modify it so we have a map of all the nodes in the subtree of the ``activeNode``.
The ``activeNode`` is the invocation point of a plugin and in the next sub-section we will register our plugin so it's invokable at ``Circuits``.
(With the node map it is possible to retrieve nodes without any asynchronous function call - this makes the writing, and
especially demonstration of the code easier. The asynchronous API functions in webgme do use promises which makes this a bit easier to deal with.)


.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/agHG2DkM35k" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Registering the Plugin at Circuits
----------------------
The generated plugin is available from the browser and the server, however in order to present it to the user on the GUI,
we must register it at the appropriate nodes. In our case we want the `ModelicaCodeGenerator` to be invoked from nodes of meta-type
``Circuit`` so we edit the value at the meta-node and the registered value will propagate down the inheritance chain to all ``Circuits``.

This video shows how we register the plugin and how we can enable the gme-logger for the *ModelicaCodeGenerator* in the browser.
(Note that after updating the localStorage the page must be refreshed. The page must also be refreshed each time we update
the plugin code on the server.)

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4r8McbtV4m8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Querying the Model
--------------------------
At this point we have the context setup up for our plugin. The activeNode for the plugin will be a ``Circuit`` and all
nodes in the sub-tree are pre-loaded in a map where keys are the path (a unique id) to the nodes and values are the
node objects.

To extract data from the model we will be using the `Core-API <https://github.com/webgme/webgme/wiki/GME-Core-API#using-the-api>`_,
and it's highly recommended to read the section on how to use the API at the link.

Before we start extracting the necessary data from the model we need to pin down what we need from our models in order
to, in this case, generate Modelica code. The figure below shows the mapping from the ``Circuit`` to Modelica code and
the related Core-API calls. (For simplicity we will leave out the Modelica parameters and use the default values from **MSL**.)

.. figure:: map_to_modelica.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 100 %

    Mapping from a Circuit in our webgme model to Modelica code

We will break up the task into two parts; 1) Extracting the data and 2) Generating the modelica code. The high-level
outline of the first part is shown below in the code block where all the extracted data will be stored in serializable
JavaScript object.

.. code-block:: javascript

    ExtractName(activeNode)
    for all (Node child in activeNode) do
        if (child.metaType is Component) then
            ExtractNameAndModelicaURI(child)
        else if (child.metaType is Connection) then
            [srcNode, dstNode] = GetConnectedNodes(child)
            srcParent = GetParentNode(srcNode)
            dstParent = GetParentNode(dstNode)
            ExtractNames([srcNode, dstNode, srcParent, dstParent])
        end if
    end for


The first video shows how to iterate over the children of the ``Circuit`` and check their meta-type. Important concepts
here are; ``self.META`` property of the plugin which is a mapping from the name of a meta-node to the actual core-node,
and the helper-method ``isMetaTypeOf`` which checks if the first node is of type of the second node.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7k6NS9v4ybI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Next we need to implement the extraction of the data we need in order to generate the Modelica code. For this we will
implement two helper functions that populates the ``modelJson.components`` and ``modelJson.connections`` array respectively.
At the end we will serialize the data using the standard built-in ``JSON.stringify`` function.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kF_p1Y2Bttw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Generating the Code
--------------------------
In the previous section we extracted the data needed to generate the Modelica code in an easily accessible format...

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
      "name": "aCircuit",
      "components": [
        {
          "URI": "Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Basic.Resistor",
          "name": "Resistor2",
          "parameters": {}
        },
        ...
      ],
      "connections": [
        {
          "src": "Resistor2.n",
          "dst": "Capacitor.n"
        },
        ...
      ]
    }

To generate the actual code we can use a templating engine such as `ejs <http://www.embeddedjs.com/>`_
(an example of how to use this in webgme can be found `here <https://github.com/webgme/tutorials/tree/master/_session2_plugin/FSM/src/plugins/FSMCodeGenerator>`_).
There are also other more fitting `templating engines available in JavaScript <https://colorlib.com/wp/top-templating-engines-for-javascript/>`_.
For simplicity here, we will make a simple string concatenation to generate the Modelica code.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6Ug0DIFcuEs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Uploading the Generated File
-----------------------------
After generating the modelica file we would like to make it available for the user to download. Webgme provides a
storage for files through the `blob-storage <https://github.com/webgme/webgme/wiki/GME-Blob-Storage-API>`_.

In the video below we will show how to upload the generated file onto the storage and how to provide a download link to
the invoker of the plugin.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CmDqSHGn91I" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Commit message:

Make sure video links are present in the tutorial for pdf generation (#1604)
* WIP try link to video for pdf generation

* WIP update link to rst format

* WIP Add links to all videos for pdf generation.

* WIP Add section on third_part_integration.

* WIP some note on chaning password

docs/interpreters/creating_the_interpreter.rst, after:

Creating the Code Generator
=========================
So far we have constructed a meta-model for our electrical-circuit domain. It enabled us to create models that resembles
circuits. Up to this point though there is no actual meaning to the circuits. As humans we can infer certain properties from
these circuits, but the models themselves don't impose any particular interpretation. The meta-model infers the structural semantics,
but no behavioural semantics.

There are many potential interpretations and interpreters of our circuit models. In this tutorial we will focus on generating
Modelica code that can be used to simulate the dynamic behavior of the circuit in question.

How to Implement the Interpreter?
-----------------------
In webgme the typical extension point for writing interpreters are plugins. The plugin framework and API are designed to
enable both server- and browser-side execution of the same code. At the point where a plugin is executed it will have
access to the context it was invoked and through various webgme APIs; :code:`Core`, :code:`Project`, :code:`BlobClient` etc.

In this tutorial we will create two plugins;

* *ModelicaCodeGenerator* - Responsible for traversing model hierarchy and extract the data needed for generating Modelica code corresponding to the circuit being interpreted.

* *SimulateModelica* - Responsible for invoking a Modelica tool that can simulate the dynamical behavior of the circuits. This plugin will also be responsible for communicating back the results to the users.

There a couple of reasons why this is a favourable division. To generate the Modelica code there is no restrictions on
where the plugin is executed. The server does not have to have any 3rd party dependencies installed (or have any connected
workers with available resources) and the plugin can even run in the browser. For some deployments restricting the set of features
to only generate the Modelica code might be favorable. When it comes to writing tests it is typically also easier to divide
functionality into separate implementations.

We will start with the *ModelicaCodeGenerator* here and continue with the *SimulateModelica* in the **Integrating Analysis Tools** section.

Generating a Plugin Template
-----------------------
To get a quick start we use the webgme-cli tool in order to create a new plugin. Navigate to the root of the repository
created at the beginning of this tutorial and invoke the command below.

.. code-block:: bash

    webgme new plugin ModelicaCodeGenerator

This should generate a range of new files..

:code:`src/plugins/ModelicaCodeGenerator/metadata.json`
    This json-structure contains information about the plugin and is used by the GUI and plugin-framework. Details
    about what goes in here is explained in the `wikipages <https://github.com/webgme/webgme/wiki/GME-Plugins#metadatajson>`_.

:code:`src/plugins/ModelicaCodeGenerator/ModelicaCodeGenerator.js`
    This is the code of the plugin itself. The very first lines show the dependencies needed for this code
    to run and is using `requirejs <http://requirejs.org/>`_ hence the syntax
    :code:`define(['path'], function (Module){ ... return ModelicaCodeGenerator;});`. The last return statement is the
    module that this file defines when required by another module (the plugin framework must be able to load our plugin).

:code:`test/plugins/ModelicaCodeGenerator/ModelicaCodeGenerator.spec.js`
    This is the outline of a `mocha <https://mochajs.org/>`_ test suite for the plugin and shows how to build up a test
    context and invoke a plugin from a unit-test.

You might also have noticed that the :code:`config/config.webgme.js` was modified... In order for the webgme plugin framework
to find our plugin the path to it is added to the configuration file. Note that both :code:`config.default.js` and
:code:`config.test.js` load and reuse the added configuration parameters from this file.

The video below shows how to generate the new plugin and modify it so we have a map of all the nodes in the subtree of the ``activeNode``.
The ``activeNode`` is the invocation point of a plugin and in the next sub-section we will register our plugin so it's invokable at ``Circuits``.
(With the node map it is possible to retrieve nodes without any asynchronous function call - this makes the writing, and
especially demonstration of the code easier. The asynchronous API functions in webgme do use promises which makes this a bit easier to deal with.)

`Click here to open the video in a browser. <https://www.youtube.com/embed/agHG2DkM35k>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/agHG2DkM35k" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Registering the Plugin at Circuits
----------------------
The generated plugin is available from the browser and the server, however in order to present it to the user on the GUI,
we must register it at the appropriate nodes. In our case we want the `ModelicaCodeGenerator` to be invoked from nodes of meta-type
``Circuit`` so we edit the value at the meta-node and the registered value will propagate down the inheritance chain to all ``Circuits``.

This video shows how we register the plugin and how we can enable the gme-logger for the *ModelicaCodeGenerator* in the browser.
(Note that after updating the localStorage the page must be refreshed. The page must also be refreshed each time we update
the plugin code on the server.)

`Click here to open the video in a browser. <https://www.youtube.com/embed/4r8McbtV4m8>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4r8McbtV4m8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Querying the Model
--------------------------
At this point we have the context setup up for our plugin. The activeNode for the plugin will be a ``Circuit`` and all
nodes in the sub-tree are pre-loaded in a map where keys are the path (a unique id) to the nodes and values are the
node objects.

To extract data from the model we will be using the `Core-API <https://github.com/webgme/webgme/wiki/GME-Core-API#using-the-api>`_,
and it's highly recommended to read the section on how to use the API at the link.

Before we start extracting the necessary data from the model we need to pin down what we need from our models in order
to, in this case, generate Modelica code. The figure below shows the mapping from the ``Circuit`` to Modelica code and
the related Core-API calls. (For simplicity we will leave out the Modelica parameters and use the default values from **MSL**.)

.. figure:: map_to_modelica.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 100 %

    Mapping from a Circuit in our webgme model to Modelica code

We will break up the task into two parts; 1) Extracting the data and 2) Generating the modelica code. The high-level
outline of the first part is shown below in the code block where all the extracted data will be stored in serializable
JavaScript object.

.. code-block:: javascript

    ExtractName(activeNode)
    for all (Node child in activeNode) do
        if (child.metaType is Component) then
            ExtractNameAndModelicaURI(child)
        else if (child.metaType is Connection) then
            [srcNode, dstNode] = GetConnectedNodes(child)
            srcParent = GetParentNode(srcNode)
            dstParent = GetParentNode(dstNode)
            ExtractNames([srcNode, dstNode, srcParent, dstParent])
        end if
    end for


The first video shows how to iterate over the children of the ``Circuit`` and check their meta-type. Important concepts
here are; ``self.META`` property of the plugin which is a mapping from the name of a meta-node to the actual core-node,
and the helper-method ``isMetaTypeOf`` which checks if the first node is of type of the second node.

`Click here to open the video in a browser. <https://www.youtube.com/embed/7k6NS9v4ybI>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7k6NS9v4ybI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Next we need to implement the extraction of the data we need in order to generate the Modelica code. For this we will
implement two helper functions that populates the ``modelJson.components`` and ``modelJson.connections`` array respectively.
At the end we will serialize the data using the standard built-in ``JSON.stringify`` function.

`Click here to open the video in a browser. <https://www.youtube.com/embed/kF_p1Y2Bttw>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kF_p1Y2Bttw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Generating the Code
--------------------------
In the previous section we extracted the data needed to generate the Modelica code in an easily accessible format...

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
      "name": "aCircuit",
      "components": [
        {
          "URI": "Modelica.Electrical.Analog.Basic.Resistor",
          "name": "Resistor2",
          "parameters": {}
        },
        ...
      ],
      "connections": [
        {
          "src": "Resistor2.n",
          "dst": "Capacitor.n"
        },
        ...
      ]
    }

To generate the actual code we can use a templating engine such as `ejs <http://www.embeddedjs.com/>`_
(an example of how to use this in webgme can be found `here <https://github.com/webgme/tutorials/tree/master/_session2_plugin/FSM/src/plugins/FSMCodeGenerator>`_).
There are also other more fitting `templating engines available in JavaScript <https://colorlib.com/wp/top-templating-engines-for-javascript/>`_.
For simplicity here, we will make a simple string concatenation to generate the Modelica code.

`Click here to open the video in a browser. <https://www.youtube.com/embed/6Ug0DIFcuEs>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6Ug0DIFcuEs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|

Uploading the Generated File
-----------------------------
After generating the modelica file we would like to make it available for the user to download. Webgme provides a
storage for files through the `blob-storage <https://github.com/webgme/webgme/wiki/GME-Blob-Storage-API>`_.

In the video below we will show how to upload the generated file onto the storage and how to provide a download link to
the invoker of the plugin.

`Click here to open the video in a browser. <https://www.youtube.com/embed/CmDqSHGn91I>`_.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto; text-align: center;">
        <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CmDqSHGn91I" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
    </div>

|
